README.md, before:

# working_with_celery

--- 


### Initialization

```python
# celery.py
from __future__ import absolute_import, unicode_literals
import os
from celery import Celery

# Set the default Django settings module for the 'celery' program.
os.environ.setdefault('DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE', 'core.settings')

app = Celery('core')

# Using a string here means the worker doesn't have to serialize
# the configuration object to child processes.
app.config_from_object('django.conf:settings', namespace='CELERY')

# Load task modules from all registered Django app configs.
app.autodiscover_tasks()

```

---

### Configurations

```python
CELERY_BROKER_URL = environ.get('CELERY_BROKER', 'redis://redis:6379/0')
CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND = environ.get('CELERY_BACKEND', 'redis://redis:6379/0')
# To use Django ORM as a CELERY_BACKEND
# We need to `pip install django-celery-results`
# then put django_celery_results in our installed_apps 
# Finally set RESULT_BACKEND :down
CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND = 'django-db' # use django orm as result backend
CELERY_BROKER_CONNECTION_RETRY_ON_STARTUP = True # Avoid warning in celery logs
CELERY_ACCEPT_CONTENT = ['application/json']
CELERY_TASK_SERIALIZER = 'json'
CELERY_RESULT_SERIALIZER = 'json'
```

💡  When using `django-celery-results` make sure to set `CELERY_RESULT_EXTENDED =True`. <br />
it allows us to store task info (worker, queue, taskname, ...ETC) that are not stored by default.

---

### NOTES

- Make sure to put this piece of code inside `project/__init__.py`
    
    ```python
    # This will make sure the app is always imported when
    # Django starts so that shared_task will use this app.
    from .celery_app import app as celery_app
    
    __all__ = ("celery_app",)
    
    ```
    

---

After that we’re ready to create tasks and execute them inside our celery worker

---

### TASK ROUTES

- To implement TASK routing, Specify a `Queue` from which each celery worker listens to.
    
    ```python
    celery -A core.celery_app worker --loglevel=info -Q queue1
    celery -A core.celery_app worker --loglevel=info -Q queue2
    ```
    
- And inside `settings.py`
    - Configure `CELERY_TASK_ROUTES` option
        
        ```python
        CELERY_TASK_ROUTES = {
            'myapp.tasks.task1': {
                'queue': 'queue1'
            },
            
            'myapp.tasks.task2': {
                'queue': 'queue2'
            },
          
        	  # We can use wildcards `*` or even REGEX
        	  # This selects all tasks inside the specified path.
            'myapp.tasks.*': {
        	      'queue': 'queue2'
            },
            
        }
        
        ```
        
    
    <aside>
    💡  default queue (named “celery” for historical reasons).
    
    </aside>
    

---

### TASK DYNAMIC ROUTES

- Instead of configuring the `task_routes` per task, we can tell Celery to use a custom class instead of specifying the path to that task.
`CELERY_TASK_ROUTES = ‘myapp.task_router.TaskRouter’`

---

Celery expects the method `route_for_task` that passes the task name as its first argument

```python
class TaskRouter:
    def route_for_task(self, task, *args, **kwargs):
        if ':' not in task:
            return {'queue': 'default'}

        namespace, _ = task.split(':')
        return {'queue': namespace}

```

<aside>
💡 Make sure to specify name of task eg: @shared_task(name=’queue:task_name’)

</aside>

---

### TASK PRIORITIZATION

<aside>
💡 CELERY does NOT natively support task prioritizing when using Redis as a message broker,  We may consider using another broker such as : RabbitMQ

</aside> <br/>
Task prioritization is all about creating queues each one represents a level of priority then route tasks to these queues accordingly.

1. Define Queues
2. Configure workers to listen to these queues
3. Route tasks

We can create these tasks manually, or let celery create it for us `I prefer manually`

```python
# Creating Queues 
CELERY_QUEUES = {
    'high_priority': { # the name of the queue.
        'exchange': '', # Default exchange.
        'exchange_type': 'direct',
        'routing_key': 'high_priority'
    },    
    'medium_priority': { # the name of the queue.
        'exchange': '', # Default exchange.
        'exchange_type': 'direct',
        'routing_key': 'medium_priority'
    },
    'low_priority': { # the name of the queue.
        'exchange': '', # Default exchange.
        'exchange_type': 'direct',
        'routing_key': 'low_priority'
    },
}
```
---

### TASK GROUPING
- Celery group tasks allow you to execute multiple tasks concurrently in parallel. This is particularly useful when you have a set of independent tasks that can be performed simultaneously, improving the overall efficiency of your application.
```python
# lets say we have task1 and task2
from celery import group 


# lets create a group 
task_group = group([task1.s(), task2.s()])

# To run the group
task_group.apply_async()
```
Voila! both tasks are called and executed simultaneously

---

### TASK CHAINING
- Allows us to take a task's output as another task's input (Chain)
- Each task in a chain runs one after another using a predefined order.
- To implement it
```python
# lets say we have task1 and task2
from celery import chain 


# lets create a chain
# NOTE THAT: result of the prev task is passed to the next one as its first arg
task_chain = chain(task1.s(), task2.s())

# To run the chain
task_chain.apply_async()
```

💡 The result of the first task will be the first `arg` of the second task, We have to recieve it in function declaration.
<br />

---

### TASK MONITORING
- First we need to `pip install flower`
- Create a new container for it
- Run it using `celery -A core.celery_app flower`
- By default it listens on `PORT:5555`

---

### TASK RATE_LIMIT
- To implement rate limiting we could configure
    - `CELERY_TASK_DEFAULT_RATE_LIMIT = '2/m'` This would be set globally on all tasks
    - Replace `2/m` with your desired rate limit, following the format `tasks_per_timeframe`

- Or we can specify a `rate_limit` option for each task individually
```python
@shared_task(rate_limit='1/m') # one task per minute
def first_task():
    time.sleep(3)
    return 'First task completed!'
``` 

---

Commit message:

docs: add important note on rate limit section

README.md, after:

# working_with_celery

--- 


### Initialization

```python
# celery.py
from __future__ import absolute_import, unicode_literals
import os
from celery import Celery

# Set the default Django settings module for the 'celery' program.
os.environ.setdefault('DJANGO_SETTINGS_MODULE', 'core.settings')

app = Celery('core')

# Using a string here means the worker doesn't have to serialize
# the configuration object to child processes.
app.config_from_object('django.conf:settings', namespace='CELERY')

# Load task modules from all registered Django app configs.
app.autodiscover_tasks()

```

---

### Configurations

```python
CELERY_BROKER_URL = environ.get('CELERY_BROKER', 'redis://redis:6379/0')
CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND = environ.get('CELERY_BACKEND', 'redis://redis:6379/0')
# To use Django ORM as a CELERY_BACKEND
# We need to `pip install django-celery-results`
# then put django_celery_results in our installed_apps 
# Finally set RESULT_BACKEND :down
CELERY_RESULT_BACKEND = 'django-db' # use django orm as result backend
CELERY_BROKER_CONNECTION_RETRY_ON_STARTUP = True # Avoid warning in celery logs
CELERY_ACCEPT_CONTENT = ['application/json']
CELERY_TASK_SERIALIZER = 'json'
CELERY_RESULT_SERIALIZER = 'json'
```

💡  When using `django-celery-results` make sure to set `CELERY_RESULT_EXTENDED =True`. <br />
it allows us to store task info (worker, queue, taskname, ...ETC) that are not stored by default.

---

### NOTES

- Make sure to put this piece of code inside `project/__init__.py`
    
    ```python
    # This will make sure the app is always imported when
    # Django starts so that shared_task will use this app.
    from .celery_app import app as celery_app
    
    __all__ = ("celery_app",)
    
    ```
    

---

After that we’re ready to create tasks and execute them inside our celery worker

---

### TASK ROUTES

- To implement TASK routing, Specify a `Queue` from which each celery worker listens to.
    
    ```python
    celery -A core.celery_app worker --loglevel=info -Q queue1
    celery -A core.celery_app worker --loglevel=info -Q queue2
    ```
    
- And inside `settings.py`
    - Configure `CELERY_TASK_ROUTES` option
        
        ```python
        CELERY_TASK_ROUTES = {
            'myapp.tasks.task1': {
                'queue': 'queue1'
            },
            
            'myapp.tasks.task2': {
                'queue': 'queue2'
            },
          
        	  # We can use wildcards `*` or even REGEX
        	  # This selects all tasks inside the specified path.
            'myapp.tasks.*': {
        	      'queue': 'queue2'
            },
            
        }
        
        ```
        
    
    <aside>
    💡  default queue (named “celery” for historical reasons).
    
    </aside>
    

---

### TASK DYNAMIC ROUTES

- Instead of configuring the `task_routes` per task, we can tell Celery to use a custom class instead of specifying the path to that task.
`CELERY_TASK_ROUTES = ‘myapp.task_router.TaskRouter’`

---

Celery expects the method `route_for_task` that passes the task name as its first argument

```python
class TaskRouter:
    def route_for_task(self, task, *args, **kwargs):
        if ':' not in task:
            return {'queue': 'default'}

        namespace, _ = task.split(':')
        return {'queue': namespace}

```

<aside>
💡 Make sure to specify name of task eg: @shared_task(name=’queue:task_name’)

</aside>

---

### TASK PRIORITIZATION

<aside>
💡 CELERY does NOT natively support task prioritizing when using Redis as a message broker,  We may consider using another broker such as : RabbitMQ

</aside> <br/>
Task prioritization is all about creating queues each one represents a level of priority then route tasks to these queues accordingly.

1. Define Queues
2. Configure workers to listen to these queues
3. Route tasks

We can create these tasks manually, or let celery create it for us `I prefer manually`

```python
# Creating Queues 
CELERY_QUEUES = {
    'high_priority': { # the name of the queue.
        'exchange': '', # Default exchange.
        'exchange_type': 'direct',
        'routing_key': 'high_priority'
    },    
    'medium_priority': { # the name of the queue.
        'exchange': '', # Default exchange.
        'exchange_type': 'direct',
        'routing_key': 'medium_priority'
    },
    'low_priority': { # the name of the queue.
        'exchange': '', # Default exchange.
        'exchange_type': 'direct',
        'routing_key': 'low_priority'
    },
}
```
---

### TASK GROUPING
- Celery group tasks allow you to execute multiple tasks concurrently in parallel. This is particularly useful when you have a set of independent tasks that can be performed simultaneously, improving the overall efficiency of your application.
```python
# lets say we have task1 and task2
from celery import group 


# lets create a group 
task_group = group([task1.s(), task2.s()])

# To run the group
task_group.apply_async()
```
Voila! both tasks are called and executed simultaneously

---

### TASK CHAINING
- Allows us to take a task's output as another task's input (Chain)
- Each task in a chain runs one after another using a predefined order.
- To implement it
```python
# lets say we have task1 and task2
from celery import chain 


# lets create a chain
# NOTE THAT: result of the prev task is passed to the next one as its first arg
task_chain = chain(task1.s(), task2.s())

# To run the chain
task_chain.apply_async()
```

💡 The result of the first task will be the first `arg` of the second task, We have to recieve it in function declaration.
<br />

---

### TASK MONITORING
- First we need to `pip install flower`
- Create a new container for it
- Run it using `celery -A core.celery_app flower`
- By default it listens on `PORT:5555`

---

### TASK RATE_LIMIT
- To implement rate limiting we could configure
    - `CELERY_TASK_DEFAULT_RATE_LIMIT = '2/m'` This would be set globally on all tasks
    - Replace `2/m` with your desired rate limit, following the format `tasks_per_timeframe`

- Or we can specify a `rate_limit` option for each task individually
- 💡 To add a rate limit directly to a task itself, you can use the `rate_limit` arg when defining the task with the `@shared_task` decorator. 
    - This will override any default rate limit set in the Django settings for that specific task.
```python
@shared_task(rate_limit='1/m') # one task per minute
def first_task():
    time.sleep(3)
    return 'First task completed!'
``` 

---
